readme.md, before:

# slangroom-exec

The missing slangroom executor. We are working the .wasm transpile of the
slangroom, but in the meantime this repo could be used similar to the `zencode-exec`
to embed [https://dyne.org/slangroom](slangroom) into other languages.

`slangroom-exec` is a simple utility that reads from STDIN the following content

1. conf
1. slangroom-contract
1. data
1. keys
1. extra
1. context

separated each per new-line and encoded in `base64` and outputs the slangroom execution to stoud.

### 💾 Install

#### Mise-en-place

Slangroom-exec is in [mise](https://mise.jdx.dev/) and can be installed with:

```
mise use "aqua:dyne/slangroom-exec"
```

#### Shell

```bash
wget https://github.com/dyne/slangroom-exec/releases/latest/download/slangroom-exec-$(uname)-$(uname -m) -O ~/.local/bin/slangroom-exec && chmod +x ~/.local/bin/slangroom-exec
```

check that works by running:

```bash
wget -O - https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dyne/slangroom-exec/main/test/fixtures/welcome.slex| slangroom-exec
```

### Demo

![Slangroom-exec Demo](./docs/slangroom-exec.gif)

## SLangroom-EXec Format Encoder

This script is used to encode the format of the slangroom-exec command into a string that can be used in the slangroom-exec command.

The script accepts the six parameters that are used in the slangroom-exec command and encodes them into a string. The encoded string is then printed to stdout.

### Usage

For each of the parameters, the script also has option flags:

```
-c or --conf for conf
-s or --slangroom-contract for slangroom-contract
-d or --data for data
-k or --keys for keys
-e or --extra for extra
-x or --context for context
-F or --filename lookup files based on a prefix
-h or --help to print the help message
```

#### The named convention `-F` option flag

When you have a suite of files if you follow the formal slangroom name convention as such:

```
conf: `${prefix}.conf`
slangroom-contract: `${prefix}.slang`
data: `${prefix}.data.json`
keys: `${prefix}.keys.json`
extra: `${prefix}.extra.json`
context: `${prefix}.context`
```

you can just run:

```bash
slangroom-exec -F prefix
```

#### STDIN

if you just pass something in `/dev/stdin` is interpreted as the contract.
This also overwrites the `--slangroom-contract` option flag if passed as a duplicate.

## Examples

To encode a slangroom-contract, you can run:

```bash
cat slangroom-contract.slang | slexfe
```

To encode parameters from a file, you can run:

```bash
slexfe -s slangroom-contract.slang
```

To load data and keys

```bash
slexfe -s slangroom-contract.slang  -d slangroom-contract.data.keys -k slangroom-contract.keys.json
```

To load many files with a correct naming convention

```bash
slexfe -F prefix
```

Commit message:

docs: how to update slangroom inside

readme.md, after:

# slangroom-exec

The missing slangroom executor. We are working the .wasm transpile of the
slangroom, but in the meantime this repo could be used similar to the `zencode-exec`
to embed [https://dyne.org/slangroom](slangroom) into other languages.

`slangroom-exec` is a simple utility that reads from STDIN the following content

1. conf
1. slangroom-contract
1. data
1. keys
1. extra
1. context

separated each per new-line and encoded in `base64` and outputs the slangroom execution to stoud.

## Demo

![Slangroom-exec Demo](./docs/slangroom-exec.gif)


## 💾 Install

### Mise-en-place

Slangroom-exec is in [mise](https://mise.jdx.dev/) and can be installed with:

```
mise use "aqua:dyne/slangroom-exec"
```

### Shell

```bash
wget https://github.com/dyne/slangroom-exec/releases/latest/download/slangroom-exec-$(uname)-$(uname -m) -O ~/.local/bin/slangroom-exec && chmod +x ~/.local/bin/slangroom-exec
```

check that works by running:

```bash
wget -O - https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dyne/slangroom-exec/main/test/fixtures/welcome.slex| slangroom-exec
```

## Update

To update the slangroom inside and rebuild slangroom-exec

```
bun update @slangroom/core@latest
```

# slexfe (cli tool)

The SLangroom-EXec Format Encode script is used to encode the format of the slangroom-exec command into a string that can be used in the slangroom-exec command.

The script accepts the six parameters that are used in the slangroom-exec command and encodes them into a string. The encoded string is then printed to stdout.

### Usage

For each of the parameters, the script also has option flags:

```
-c or --conf for conf
-s or --slangroom-contract for slangroom-contract
-d or --data for data
-k or --keys for keys
-e or --extra for extra
-x or --context for context
-F or --filename lookup files based on a prefix
-h or --help to print the help message
```

#### The named convention `-F` option flag

When you have a suite of files if you follow the formal slangroom name convention as such:

```
conf: `${prefix}.conf`
slangroom-contract: `${prefix}.slang`
data: `${prefix}.data.json`
keys: `${prefix}.keys.json`
extra: `${prefix}.extra.json`
context: `${prefix}.context`
```

you can just run:

```bash
slangroom-exec -F prefix
```

#### STDIN

if you just pass something in `/dev/stdin` is interpreted as the contract.
This also overwrites the `--slangroom-contract` option flag if passed as a duplicate.

## Examples

To encode a slangroom-contract, you can run:

```bash
cat slangroom-contract.slang | slexfe
```

To encode parameters from a file, you can run:

```bash
slexfe -s slangroom-contract.slang
```

To load data and keys

```bash
slexfe -s slangroom-contract.slang  -d slangroom-contract.data.keys -k slangroom-contract.keys.json
```

To load many files with a correct naming convention

```bash
slexfe -F prefix
```
